# Am I killing the Donkey?

Don’t worry, I am not killing a donkey. Donkey is the symbol animal of Catalunya, and I am measuring my carbon footprint of my last two months, therefore I used this title just to address how much I have contributed to the locally (but not the global) warming.

My major was about forestry and climate change impact, but I have never calculated my carbon footprint. This idea never jumped to my mind not until I started to drive to work and school this year. Although we come two persons in a car, I started to wonder, despite the time I waste by driving, if this worth or not?

My next question is, how? How can I measure my carbon footprint? I was thinking of hacking into my car computer, but I am not a hacker and I don’t want to destroy my car computer. Then I remembered that I have google map timeline, the omni-internet-god that monitor me all the time. I downloaded my timeline data, also other data I found that I can download from google, and it is total 280 Mb of size. The data I have is from 2016, but I only used the data from May of this year.

I was fascinated by how google recorded my activities and my locations, they even give the accuracy of my locations and the confidence of my activities. SO WEIRD!!!!! Anyway, I suffered a bit from the beginning because I had never handled json file by myself and timeline file is a nested, nested, nested and nested json. Finally, I could extract the data I wanted and put it into calculating the CO<sub>2</sub> and NO<sub>x</sub> I produced during these two months. And the result? I only took into account the commute distances and the commute time, and discarded my activity during the weekend. In total I travelled 2208 km, the average driving speed is around 30-40 km/hr, and the average commute time is 58 minutes per travel. The official number provided by the manufacturer of my car is 97g CO<sub>2</sub>/km, the CO<sub>2</sub> and NO<sub>x</sub>  I produced during the last two months are 214 kg and 61 kg, respectively. I was totally shocked, I didn’t expect that much. In the other word, I am producing around 4.5 kg of CO<sub>2</sub> everyday. 

This made me wonder, am I killing the Donkey by my car? Am I contributing to the Barcelona air pollution that much? I started to look for the information of train and other public transportation. I wanted to know what if I took the public transportation rather than using my car, would the CO<sub>2</sub> and NO<sub>x</sub> emission be less? I know it would be definitely less, but how much? Here is the data, under the same distance, the CO<sub>2</sub> emission of using train is 61kg, of bus is 166kg, of metro is 67kg and the last, if using the EU published average CO<sub>2</sub> emission by car, it would be 265kg. Woop, much better if I travelled with public transportation, isn’t it? But considering that the values for public transportation is per passenger, if we sum up the values by 50 passengers, it is still a huge amount. And what if I come with full car? The average CO<sub>2</sub> per person would reduce to 54kg. 

I also searched for how many trees I’d need to compensate my carbon footprint. For a mature tree, it can absorb around 22kg of CO<sub>2</sub> per year. I’d need 10 trees to work a whole year for me to compensate my activities during the last two months. Even though if I took the public transportation, I sill need three trees to compensate the emission.

Am I killing the Donkey? No matter what transportation I use, I am killing it softly. What would be my suggests? Try to efficiently use your car if you have to drive, find a job closed to your place or move close to your office, this will not only reduce your carbon footprint by transportation, you can also wake up later!

